---
title: "configMapGenerator"
linkTitle: "configMapGenerator"
type: docs
weight: 6
description: >
    Generate ConfigMap resources.
---

## configMapGenerator

ConfigMap objects can be generated by adding a `configMapGenerator` entry to the `kustomization.yaml` file.

See [Generating ConfigMaps Tasks] for examples of how to use `configMapGenerator`.

---

* **apiVersion**: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
* **kind**: Kustomization
* **configMapGenerator** ([][ConfigMapArgs](#configmapargs))

    List of ConfigMaps to generate.


### ConfigMapArgs

ConfigMapArgs contains the metadata of the generated ConfigMap.

* **name** (string)

    Name of the generated ConfigMap. A hash suffix will be added to the Name by default.

* **namespace** (string)

    Namespace of the generated ConfigMap.

* **behavior** (string)

    Behavior of generated resource, must be one of:

    * **create**: Create new ConfigMap
    * **replace**: Replace existing ConfigMap
    * **merge**: Merge with existing ConfigMap


* **literals** ([]string)

    List of string literal pair sources. Each literal source should be a key and literal value, e.g. `key=value`.

* **files** ([]string)

    List of files paths to use in creating a list of key value pairs. A source should be in the form [{key}=]{path}. If the `key=` argument is not provided, the key is the path's basename. If the `key=` argument is provided, it becomes the key. The value is the file contents. Specifying a directory will iterate each named file in the directory whose basename is a valid ConfigMap key.

* **envs** ([]string)

    List of file paths. The contents of each file should be one key=value pair per line. Additionally, npm `.env` and `.ini` files are supported.

* **env** (string)

    Env is the singular form of `envs`. This is merged with `env` on edits with `kustomize fix` for consistency with `literals` and `files`.

* **options** ([GeneratorOptions](#generatoroptions))

    Options override global `generatorOptions` field.

### GeneratorOptions

GeneratorOptions modify behavior of ConfigMap generation.

* **labels** (map[string]string)

    Map of string keys and values that can be added as labels to the generated ConfigMap.

* **annotations** (map[string]string)

    Map of string key and values that can be added as annotations to the generated ConfigMap.

* **disableNameSuffixHash** (boolean)

    If set to true, then the default behavior of adding a hash suffix to the generated ConfigMap name is disabled.

* **immutable** (boolean)

    If set to true, then then generated ConfigMap is immutable. This ensures that data in the ConfigMap cannot be updated.

[Generating ConfigMaps Tasks]: /docs/tasks/configmap_generator/
