# kustomize 2.1.0

Lots of bug fixes since 2.0.3, and too many commits (over 300).

Summary:  Go modules, inventory, plugins, eased loading restrictions.


## Go modules

Kustomize now defines it dependencies in a `go.mod` file, 
and how this is used to support kustomize libraries
for use in other tools will start evolving.

## The inventory

This is an alpha feature.

Users can add an `inventory` stanza to their
kustomization file, to add a special inventory
object to the build result.  This object can be
applied to the cluster and used to manage
intelligent history aware pruning.

Details [here](inventory_object.md).

## Generator and transformer plugins

Kustomize reads or creates resources, transforms
them, and emits them as YAML.  The kustomization
file is a declaration of how this works.






The client can recognize this object by name and use it to do a better job
with actions like `apply`, `prune` and `delete`.




 * The `generators` and `transformers` fields.
   See [plugins](plugins.md).

 * The `--load_restrictions none` flag.

 * Field changes / deprecations (use `kustomize fix`)

   * The `resources` field generalized, can accept
     what was being placed in bases.
     
     `bases` field deprecated.

   * New `envs` sub-field introduced to both
     `configMapGenerators` and `secretGenerators`,
     replacing the deprecated `env` field
     (allowing mixins of k=v pairs from different files).

 * GO modules

 * Last release with completely unsupported access to `pkg`.
